stretch
-------

multi moves and attacks. think about how they will work.

make hills confer a combat bonus
	if attacker on hill and defender not=bonus
	if defender in forest and attacker not=bonus

		

		
maybe you only get to use your def once a turn. this would mean you could make cities have so much def they are immune to damage from one mob but 
vulnerable to 2 or more) in void mobattacksmob
print more detailed combat info so we can debug
	


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	

probably post 7drl:
need click to move to go anywhere regardless of passable. kind of annoying to do
city names shown on map with F3 toggle on and off. harder than i thought because need to wait until drawn all tiles then draw over top.

fix auto auto key bug

a turn is like this:
	all cities get to act, including letting mobs go they can't feed or pay
	all mobs get to act which can include killing other mobs and cities

finish list of mobs

when you meet a city state get a message about what they wants
add message when press action over trader saying send what where and you get a list of city states with whath they wants
showing how many of the resources you have like:
	SEND WHAT WHERE?
	oranges to venice [0 on hand 0 per turn]
	oil to vatican city [105 on hand, 2 per turn]
	

hero or gold huts
effect of city buildings (pretty easy except for trader and barracks)


eventually: pop up city list and mob list (per city)


maybe we need to limit some city addons to 1 eg city hall. or rename it at least


if a city is destroyed there will still by citygrid links to it in map. set them to null.
citygrid points to the city that has influence on that square. it's possible for there to be a city addon for a different city on that tile
x where you build city has to be neutral influence
//city gets initual 8 squares but only if they are neutral

//you need "which city owns this tile" map
//create city object
//list of cities in rlmap

display gold, turn






szczęśliwy 


stage 1
you generate a map. the map has tiles on for things like mountains, lakes, rivers,
grass, hills.
every tile has 3 stats: gold, production and food. as city grows, cover more tiles. each turn gold from tiles goes to you, production shared between producing elements of city, food helps growth of city border

stage 2
you place resources. these are mostly (totally?) determined by the type of tile.
some tile types always have that resource, eg forest has wood, mountain has stone, others
are randomly on that type of tile or not eg oranges. only one type of resource per tile?
maybe special trumps always? as in diamonds on mountain replace stone?

stage 3
you place building level stuff. goodie huts (hero to join you, money, city seed, attack up, def up tokens, maybe one use stuff like hp potions)
natural wonders. build a gift shop improvement on one and get extra money per turn
initial barbarian camps. these can be attacked but don't directly attack you back but if 
you're attacking one they are more likely to spit out units. as your city grows more barbarians appear? one shop. one warp gate. make sure they are reachable.

stage 4 
wandering monsters added

city growth
grows by one square every time you have enough food. pick one random tile in the next circular growth ring outwards. when all full, go on to next ring.

Goal of the game:
Buy presents for Broom's Bristleday! There is one present per level. 10 levels. there's always one shop on the map and the top item it sells, say for 1,000,000 gold is something broom wants, like a toy sailing boat. after you buy the present you have to exit the level via the warp gate



roads to build manually between cities? sounds like a fun activity but what would it 
do in the game?

maybe have independent cities in the game and they demand luxury goods. you have to build a road between your city that has that good in its influence range

boat issue:
	new buildings: boat builder, sturdy boat builder
	the buildings create an object to pick up that is boat or sturdy boat
	sturdy boat is only one trip and works only on shallow water?
